>> There is a pilgrimage of
epic proportions that occurs
at the banks of the three
holiest rivers in India--
the Ganges, the Yamuna,
and the mythical Saraswati.
That gathering is
called Kumbh Mela.
Untold millions of
devoted individuals
made this journey in 2013,
each on their own pilgrimage,
each for their own reason.
Most come on the
faith and belief
that they'll break the
cycle of reincarnation
and be granted access
to the afterlife.
Others come for resolution,
for love, community, devotion,
and even curiosity.
But no matter what, each
person makes the journey
to connect with something
greater than themselves.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
As a photographer, my
work and my purpose
is about reminding us of
the connection and the unity
that we already have
with the divine.
Here, three men from three
completely different worlds
converge at the confluence
of these rivers.
One in the name of purpose,
one in the name of faith,
and one in the name of devotion.
The water represents all
of these things and more.
The Yamuna, depth and clarity.
The mythical Saraswati,
connection and faith.
And the Ganges, life and death.
>> The sky is my roof.
The land is my room.
(TRANSLATED) I am my
father and mother's child.
They were wealthy, but I
felt happier among the sadhus
and in religious places, so
I relinquished that path.
And chose this path instead.
I am happy and
have peace of soul.
My life has no tribulation.
The first thing in a
human being is honesty.
When you have honesty,
everything is yours.
For everyone, there is food.
For everyone, there is medicine.
Medicine for all.
For everyone, there is
sleep, there is bath,
there is medicine,
and there is food.
There is an unseen force
that is running it.
Shanti, peaceful life.
For every man I want.
[EXCITEDLY SHOUTING]
>> This is holy water
to these people.
This is cleansing water.
This is water that
allows them to break
the cycle with reincarnation
and go to heaven.
This is a holy river.
And, OK, it might not always
look so clean and all that.
But still, it's like a pretty
amazing space, and the people
and the energy that are
here at this moment in time.
Towards the end
of our trip, a man
is literally ushered
into our camp.
He says, I'm here
to bury my father.
I'm here to spread my
father's ashes in the Ganges.
That man's name
is Andre Eichman.
>> My father's name
was Autocar Eichman.
He got sick the winter of 2007,
and it happened quite quick
that he passed away.
I told him, at
the time, that I'd
go ahead and put his ashes
around different places
that I'd travel
to that I thought
were respectful of who he was.
I thought that I would
take him to the Ganges,
really, so that I could
put the majority of him
in during the Mela
Kumbh, because
of the lunar cycle, the
spiritualness of the place.
Now, he's in India
and he's come back
to the universe in
which he came from.
I don't know, this day,
everything about it,
kind of came together,
and it was meant to be.
And I know that
he appreciated it,
that he would love India,
for instance, that I'm
here and all the excitement.
He always wanted to
make it to India.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
My dad was one hell of a guy.
And God I miss him.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> (TRANSLATED) Such a nice
and grand happening here,
people are arranging this whole
thing on the faith in God.
Lots of people walking.
Cloth, paper, dreams, the
city is made of these things.
where 50 million people.
No stone.
No cement.
Only cloth city.
The actions you do
in life, either God
will give you the
fruits accordingly.
I have faith in God.
I have faith in karma.
>> At the heart of human
existence, you find faith,
devotion, and purpose.
Each of us is on a pilgrimage
to connect to something
greater than ourselves.
Embrace these things and you
will find that connection.
[MUSIC PLAYING]